# Sample Texts

## The Poem of the Cocánb Altort (Proto-Cocánb)

```
thPoéo thCocán Altorn Onécmdf Bec Bftf

Cocánb altort, ürpenîtort ürodictort ürişêxu áaç tivitin volvinãp plicat
īóopaioc onşt rictiot thpení otês ticlen onkdd cłdeğse egřbk degsbáal fýhginkf
bňdřbň lobec seřbsi. Thîmain vòlvdir ectlpá infuác tiviti, esücağ énitap
iercinŵap, lagenít, aspan, kiñşqué ezinb, albüs tingen, itafløg, ginürethrap,
latickłt ortú, rerotielec trøstim ulatiok, néeinok ickinnons dýce gýhlgşjħd
sbłggħx cýdłggh gildggłg ghlhýd efegč fňřg gřbgg. Thrécipie nosûcác tiviti
émareç eivdir ecphýş icaple asurvim asochísœ, motionâp leasürt hrouğe rôti
chumili, atióok noŵledgt hath plaipléa sint sadis tidomin antnon ectifbh
dşjýčeğtflħe hačmir bliehhğclčfň křbeit decýds bgho báachth. Manóth éspraç
tičecarrsiğ nifîca nħéal trisk nonýdf béesi yetkħfse.
```

The source text is not provided.

## Excerpt from *the Geography of Strabo*

```
Hêliko, nofađis tanfröp arnas šo, riv alibot iheiğ hanić ircuí; fobotàrr oc
kancovère witśno, ant heicír cuicomp risenolàr gextën ôterritornonngt cřctğm
dšisft bhdňbtf dčňbtğřch decýedčd ghđwd dčretğ siobéëtff býi. Herárth têm
plothmoù säänh ip pükrenànth câvo thńym phacáll ethlë ibethriđë; anfroth if
aćonmighin fét hathoswh con secratehé likött hemoûsa werthrakian, thsämwh de
dičatepi erianlêi bethró anpìm plei [ipier inonnbàf] t'thsamğođ des senoné
dececèff bečif dćej dčecèdf beciğd fecsłdčm dšdt decterèt deeòcđ kngobec ife
dśiec edocdisf dčňjđ cahobe cedší. Th'thrá kianüsèt bčallë pierê, bù, nothàt
hehavđí säppe áre, thmá kédo niánholt hesplâ čêno necsìđ dobëbdfšft ćwct dýđedd
kecšk dđeësf.
```

[Source](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Muses&oldid=1249546585#Cult):

```
Helikon, not far distant from Parnassos, rivals it both in height and in
circuit; for both are rocky and covered with snow, and their circuit comprises
no large extent of territory. Here are the temple of the Mousai and Hippukrene
and the cave of the Nymphai called the Leibethrides; and from this fact one
might infer that those who consecrated Helikon to the Mousai were Thrakians,
the same who dedicated Pieris and Leibethron and Pimpleia [in Pieria] to the
same goddesses. The Thrakians used to be called Pieres, but, now that they have
disappeared, the Makedonians hold these places.
```
